SHIN GODZILLA
A FANTASY TOKUSATSU FILM
A GIANT UNIDENTIFIED LIFE FORM APPEARS!
DESIGNATED "GOMESS"
UNPARALLELED DISASTER
EXTERMINATED BY THE SELF-DEFENSE FORCE
AGAIN, A GIANT UNIDENTIFIED LIFE FORM
APPEARS
GIANT UNIDENTIFIED LIFE FORM NO. 2,
DESIGNATED "MAMMOTH FLOWER"
MAMMOTH FLOWER'S WEAKNESS DISCOVERED
EXTERMINATED THROUGH CARBON GAS AND FIRE
THIRD GIANT UNIDENTIFIED LIFE FORM
GIANT UNIDENTIFIED LIFE FORM NO. 3,
DESIGNATED "PEGUILA"
PEGUILA EMITS FREEZING GAS
TOKYO FROZEN! UNPRECEDENTED SITUATION
FEMALE SCIENTIST DISCOVERS WEAKNESS
PEGUILA EXTERMINATED
GIANT UNIDENTIFIED LIFE FORMS REDESIGNATED
AS "S-CLASS SPECIES" OR "KAIJU"
S-CLASS SPECIES NO. 4,
FLYING KAIJU "LARUGEUS"
LARUGEUS ESCAPES! WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN
DO KAIJU POSSESS STEALTH ABILITIES?!
DISASTER PREVENTION AGENCY (DPA) CREATED
FIVE-MEMBER S-CLASS SPECIES
SUPPRESSION PROTOCOL ENFORCEMENT UNIT,
AKA "SSSP", IS ESTABLISHED
SSSP CHIEF
TATSUHIKO MUNAKATA
TEAM CAPTAIN
KIMIO TAMURA
STRATEGIC PLANNER
SHINJI KAMINAGA
BIOLOGIST
YUMI FUNABERI
UNPARTICLE PHYSICIST
AKIHISA TAKI
S-CLASS SPECIES NO. 5
DISSOLVING KAIJU "KAIGEL"
SSSP'S FIRST MISSION
KAIGEL EXTERMINATED WITH HELP FROM SDF
SSSP PRAISED
S-CLASS SPECIES NO. 6
SUBTERRANEAN KAIJU "PAGOS"
PAGOS CONSUMES RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS
REDESIGNATED AS RADIATION-EATING KAIJU
PAGOS EXTERMINATED THROUGH SSSP'S COMMAND
...AND NOW
The Disaster Prevention Agency reports
that unknown object is still moving.
Behavioral principle unknown. Analyzing
with Kaiju Behavior Simulation D1.
Evacuation route is undeveloped.
Evacuation Simulation D2 is being
executed with civilians prioritized.
SSSP has arrived at forward HQ!
The DPA Minister has designated
the target as S-Class Species No. 7.
Notice from the DPA.
D1 still under consideration.
Hello again.
I'm the SSSP Captain, Tamura.
We are assuming command as of this moment.
Your cooperation is appreciated.
Yes sir. Let's skip the formal handover.
The target is invisible, but can be
detected through surrounding debris.
And it shows up clearly on infrared.
Then isn't invisibility pointless?
Lasers go through it.
Light transmittance is almost 100%.
It can make its cells
have 0% reflection and absorption.
Heat and light weapons won't work.
If it's a bioweapon, it's for use against
a more advanced civilization.
Target stopped near Yoshiwa substation!
Why an electric substation?
Wait... is it eating electricity?!
Change in Kaiju No. 7's visibility!
It seems to show itself when it's full.
The invisibility's even more pointless!
After charging, it reveals itself
to intimidate. It makes sense.
If it eats electricity,
we should shut off its supply.
Contact the Ministry of Economy
and the power company! Get it shut off!
When the power stops,
it attacks the power grid.
What a nuisance.
Notice from the DPA.
S-Class Species No. 7 has been named.
Target is hereby known as
Invisible Kaiju Neronga.
Any reason behind that?
The DPA Minister names them on impulse.
Fascinating. How does it sense
where there's electricity?
Maybe it has a quantum device that detects
the coordination of electric fields?
Neronga is heading towards Mt. Uji.
Blackout areas expanding.
Begin a reconnaissance-in-force and attack
before it causes even more damage.
At this speed,
GPS-guided missiles can't miss.
No radiation detected throughout.
A saturation attack is possible.
Targeting the electrical horns
on its head seems most effective.
Roger that.
Forget the armor units.
Focus fire on Neronga's head.
Target has shot down all missiles!
No hits!
Unbelievable!
An anti-surface discharge?!
I think we just made it mad.
Behavior Simulation D1 results are in.
Left alone, Neronga will likely consume
all of Japan's electricity
and discharge it all over Japan.
What a pain...
The Ministry of Economy and
Prime Minister's Office won't like this.
It's Chief Munakata.
What's the situation?
There's been a setback.
I see. The Secretary-General's suggesting
nuclear attack to the DPA Minister.
It's probably an excuse to lead us
to possessing nukes, but you never know.
It may only be for counter-Kaiju use,
but this is what happens when they ratify
an international nuclear licensing treaty.
For some reason,
Kaiju only appear in Japan.
The international community
wants Japan to foot the bill.
Do you think our politicians
can fight that pressure?
I understand our situation.
We'll try to resolve this
before the P5 do anything.
That's the situation.
We need a viable option.
Any ideas besides an attack
by the ground forces or cutting power?
Fire a highly conductive material
into Neronga to cause electric leakage.
Or use water to short it out.
That could work, but its hide
is highly insulated and tough.
Even an SDF excavator won't pierce it.
It won't just let us punch a hole in it
and no tranquilizer has worked on a Kaiju.
How about a long-term strategy?
We can keep cutting off power
and try to starve it to death.
It could take forever, and this is the
Chief Cabinet Secretary's electoral zone.
The Prime Minister's Office
won't accept any more damage.
I guess so.
In that case, I'm out of options.
Same here. I have no idea.
Captain, a child's still in the village.
I'll handle this right away.
All right. I'm counting on you.
Anything! No one has any
swift and sure-fire ideas?!
Object incoming from outside
the atmosphere. Speed, 12,000 kmph.
Unknown object is slowing!
Heading this way!
What happened?! Status report!
Incoming object has crashed nearby!
No, it's a landing!
The object is moving!
A new flying Kaiju?!
No...
Its silhouette is humanoid!
What is this thing?!
A... silver giant?
Whoa. That's 500,000 kilowatts of power!
It can stand that?!
It turned invisible again!
Does it sense danger?
Is the giant going to do something?
What is it doing?
High energy readings inside the giant!
I don't know what's going on!
Status report!
What happened?!
I don't know!
It's a light wave heat beam!
High ion readings!
The air's turned into plasma!
How many gigajoules of heat was that?!
Whatever it is, that giant is incredible.
-It flies?!
-What?! That's impossible!
Contact the radar sites! Don't lose it!
Mt. Mineoka station. Target lost.
Mt. Otakine station lost it, too.
It disappeared in mid-air?
Where did it go?
See the Kaiju?
Yeah I did!
Did you see it turn invisible?
I hope one doesn't appear in Tokyo.
Why not? Kaiju are so amazing!
They're so cool!
I'm worried.
Kaiju are like earthquakes to us Japanese.
When they hit, they hit.
The newspapers were all sold out.
One shows up in the countryside
and the media goes crazy.
There wasn't much damage yesterday.
Yeah. Our efforts
are finally showing results.
So the ground force's Steel Rain
finally worked on a Kaiju.
I hear a giant from the sky took it out.
Seriously?
Thanks to the widespread evacuation,
no civilian witnesses have been reported.
Transferring from the Public Security
Intelligence Agency to the SSSP.
I'm Hiroko Asami.
I'm the Captain, Tamura.
Our team has been assigned
to deal with the mysterious giant.
That'll be your job.
I still can't believe it.
Is this giant humanoid a new Kaiju?
We don't know.
It's why we asked for an analyst like you.
Understood. I'll do my best
to meet expectations.
I sensed in the giant an intelligence
different from that of Kaiju.
It's just a personal impression.
Initial impressions are important.
I'll keep that in mind.
Welcome to the government's
independent young bloods.
I'm Funaberi. Yumi Funaberi.
I'm from the MEXT.
My specialty is biology.
And you're also married.
Captain Kimio Tamura
is from the Ministry of Defense.
He's from the Bureau of Defense Policy.
Akihisa Taki. Here from Johoku University
where he works in unparticle physics.
A typical geek
who brings his personal life to work.
You really were in intelligence.
You already know all about us.
And that's my new buddy, Shinji Kaminaga.
From Public Security, the National Police
Agency Security Bureau. That's all I know.
He strives for anonymity.
He says little and works alone.
I don't know him well.
In the last incident, he and a child were
in the vicinity of the giant's landing.
He didn't have a scratch.
He's amazingly lucky.
So he was the closest to the giant.
I'm Asami. It's a pleasure.
I'm Kaminaga. By "buddy,"
do you mean "partner"?
I guess so.
I've only worked in teams or alone.
This is my first duo.
I see.
I suppose we're paired up
because of our similar background.
But being buddies is about trust.
Hopefully you can earn my trust.
Where's your report on the giant?
It's not in my file.
There was nothing to report.
I was unconscious.
Already you're a useless buddy.
What do I call the people here?
They're SSSP members, just like you.
No, I mean in terms of
human conceptual thought.
They're our teammates.
Our friends.
How's the rookie?
Outstanding. She's quick to adapt
and has good judgement.
She works fast, too.
Fast indeed.
IDENTITY UNKNOWN
And concise.
ULTRAMAN (TENTATIVE NAME)
INVESTIGATIVE REPORT
"Ultra"?
It's code for top secret matters.
It was used in her training.
"Ultraman." I like it.
Though he is causing headaches.
Information from NORAD and Yokota Base
has reached the White House.
The US is becoming more interested.
When it was Kaiju, all they would do
was sell us weapons.
When it's an extraterrestrial,
they get involved.
And now others are getting involved.
Being a dominant country must be fun.
So why do I have to write up a report
just to hand over to the US?
Because the Chief told you to.
They should get the information themselves
and not rely on a vassal state like us.
What information? He's 60 meters tall and,
based on ground impressions, 2,900 tons.
We know nothing about his beam,
how he flies, or his purpose.
We don't even know
if he's naked or clothed.
There's really nothing to go on.
You're not very considerate.
You could at least ask if I want a coffee
or just give me one.
We are self-sustained,
individual organisms.
We act on our own for ourselves.
Society is more than just individuals.
Your coffee, your clothes...
They are all made by someone else.
Humans are social animals.
We depend on each other to survive.
I see.
So, a herd.
This guy is an imbecile.
Look out!
It's crumbling!
Avalanche!
Get away from the bridge!
Get away! Quickly!
A Kaiju has appeared in
the Momoyama District of Kamikita City.
A chopper will be here in ten minutes.
Everyone, move out!
Yes sir!
Okay. My first mission!
Out in the mountains again? I hate bugs!
Oh come on. Show some spirit!
Earthquake detection system
locating the target.
We'll classify it as
a Subterranean Kaiju.
A Subterranean Kaiju...
I have a bad feeling.
Civilian evacuation of target area
will be complete in 20 minutes.
Kaiju No. 8 is digging through
the mountain moving in a straight line.
Maybe we could use the tunnel it digs
for an expressway tunnel.
Not for a while we can't.
We're getting radioactive readings
in its wake...
Yes. There are many similarities to
the Radiation-Eating Kaiju Pagos.
You're right. It's heading directly
towards a nuclear waste storage facility.
CONTROLLED AREA (STORAGE FACILITY)
NO UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY
It is!
Make sure everyone gets
protective gear on just in case.
Asami, focus on radiation surveillance.
Roger.
New seismic readings detected.
Target moving from Delta 6 to Echo 5.
Bingo. A 99% chance
it's the same type of Kaiju as Pagos.
This is really bad.
I'll assume it's a Case B
and report it to the Chief.
This is really bad.
Yes. Not only does it have
radioactive materials inside it,
but, like Pagos, it may fire
some kind of nasty beam.
We definitely want to avoid
radioactive materials scattering again
like with Pagos.
I'm initiating Case B in accordance with
the S-Class Species Suppression Protocol.
I'll handle the higher-ups.
You handle the situation there.
Roger that.
The Chief will have the DPA
declare a State of Emergency B.
Order a mandatory wide-range evacuation.
Roger that. I'll check the local
monitoring system as a fail-safe.
And we now have a name for it.
The Subterranean Kaiju Gabora.
With Gabora underground,
now might be our chance.
Right. If we kill it underground, there's
less chance of radioactive contamination.
Yeah. An MOP2 can reach this depth.
All right. We'll purchase Massive Ordnance
Penetrators from the US right away.
Get me the Prime Minster.
-Get a status report.
-Send target location!
-Kaiju No. 8 causing road collapses.
-Cannot see target!
The explosions are masking
its seismic waves!
Underground roar detected!
Target is alive!
We can't just sit and wait.
Contact Yokota Base. Keep bombing
until the target is neutralized.
The US Military is out of munitions.
It'll take six months to get more.
Oh, have the US military
bill the Ministry of Defense. Not us.
Target is in the open!
This is bad. Only one mountain separates
it from the storage facility.
Now is our only chance
for a direct attack.
You're right.
Gabora likely contains less radioactive
material than the facility.
Let's call for a saturation attack.
Data team, be ready for the giant
just in case!
Have the radar sites monitor the skies!
Roger!
I wonder if Ultraman will show up again.
Gabora is headed for the storage facility!
Let's move to the command vehicle!
Asami, stay here and watch for the giant!
Roger!
Let's show some spirit!!
Huh?
Where's Kaminaga?
Huh?! Is that... Ultraman?!
He appeared on the ground this time?!
Why?!
And his silver pattern has turned red!
So that's Ultraman.
Beautiful.
Follow Ultraman! We're moving! Come on!
If Ultraman uses his beam
to destroy Gabora, it'll be catastrophic!
He fires an unknown particle.
There's no telling how it'll react
with Gabora's nuclear atoms!
Let's assume the worst.
By the SSSP special provision, I'm raising
the State of Emergency to High A!
-Contact each ministry! Hurry!
-Yes sir!
There he is! It's Ultraman!
Where's Gabora?
I knew it, it has the same face as Pagos!
Then it can fire a very nasty beam, too?!
What?!
Why isn't he dodging?!
It's weird. Despite the amount of
nasty beam it's shooting,
the dosimeters aren't rising!
Is he absorbing all the radiation
and neutralizing it?!
Yes, he is. He's protecting us.
His red patterns are turning green!
Is it a sign of something affecting him?
It seems so. It might be due
to a rapid loss of energy.
He's taking Gabora away from us?
Was he trying to avoid
any more harm to us?
Maybe because the cleanup would
be difficult, like it was with Pagos?
Yes. That's quite possible.
He never used his beam.
I don't know how, but he knew Gabora's
qualities and understood our situation.
And right before he left...
He was making eye contact.
Target and Gabora both lost.
They disappeared again.
Let's get back.
Yes sir.
Anyway, we may be able to communicate
with Ultraman.
There is hope.
Welcome back!
Pagos, Neronga, Gabora...
Every part of their bodies was
about the same except the head and back.
Like those parts were interchangeable.
Until now, Kaiju were all
completely different.
I finished my reports.
Now there's nothing to do.
We're on standby for
Ultraman's next appearance,
so all we can do is wait.
He's only shown up to eliminate Kaiju.
Where does he normally hide?
The only place to regularly hide
something of that size
would be in the ocean.
How does he breathe and eat?
Can he understand
human language and thought?
The internet's overflowing with theories.
Some civilians got the fight with Gabora
on video and uploaded it.
Right now the world's abuzz about it.
...admitted its existence,
and has designated it as "Ultraman."
Kaminaga's not in again today.
Yeah. He acts on his own too much.
Where is he off wasting time?
Maybe I'll check with my old agency.
THE SAVAGE MIND
Where's your partner?
Off on his own again without permission.
What does he think "buddy" means?
The Chief's here from the fifth floor.
That's rare.
Hopefully it's not a bad sign.
Huh?! Wait!
You're kidding.
What's the cause?
Unknown! Well, Taki?
Taki!
All of our data's toast.
Who insisted on making these regulations?
A closed environment and no backups!
I want to **** them!
Me too.
Who are you?!
Forgive me. That was my fault.
You know extraterrestrials exist.
There is no cause for alarm.
My name is Zarab.
Like Ultraman,
I am a visitor from another planet.
You can consider me
Extraterrestrial No. 2.
How did you get in here?
That is a secret.
I came here to communicate
with you directly.
You say "communicate."
You understand our language?
I have a translation app installed in
one of your devices. It should be working.
I'd like to test its capabilities.
Can you speak this language?
Of course. It is not a problem.
I guess it's working.
When I materialized, I emitted
a powerful electromagnetic pulse.
It seems that it caused
your current situation.
It wasn't my intent. To make it up to you,
allow me to fix what I damaged.
Whoa.
How did you recover the lost data?
I can do it by simply thinking.
This ability is a function
of my natural physiological makeup.
Unfortunately, it is not something
I can teach you to do.
Let's get to the point.
Why have you come here?
To establish friendly relations
with this country.
This planet is divided into groupings
called "countries."
I wish to start a friendship
with this island nation.
Why our country?
It is where I landed. That is all.
Not because Ultraman is here?
Please let me speak
to the person you call Prime Minister.
First a silver giant. Now a human-sized
extraterrestrial that can talk?
The Prime Minister and extraterrestrial
are meeting in secret.
I'm used to the unexpected.
Nothing surprises me anymore.
But if other countries get wind of
an extraterrestrial who can communicate,
it could complicate matters.
They say he can control
electromagnetic pulses.
According to reports, he can erase
and manipulate any electronic data.
If Zarab gets angry, it won't just be
global economic chaos.
It'll be worse than any Kaiju!
Now that the world knows of Ultraman,
global politics, economies,
militaries, and religions
are being shaken to their cores.
If he's friendly, then that's good.
If we can form a treaty with him
before the rest of the world,
we'd gain the upper hand
in all global politics.
You were right.
The details of the agreement are
not favorable but unequal and one-sided.
This country will essentially
be subservient to Zarab.
Huge quantities of intel
have been leaked to other countries.
It's likely that Zarab leaked it.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is under
a lot of back-channeled pressure.
And Zarab hinted at visiting other nations
in talks with the Prime Minister.
He's better at politics
than human politicians.
He's an extraterrestrial after all.
He has overwhelming
technology on his side.
Any help or technology Zarab offers
could lead to world dominance.
So they want a quick treaty
to gain the global upper hand,
regardless of how it's perceived
by other nations.
The motives of those in power
never change.
Curiosity killed the cat.
It's your nature as an Intel officer,
but this time you have gone too far.
There you are, Zarab.
Why are you playing secret games
with world governments?
To efficiently eliminate
the native intelligent life forms.
I plan to cause conflict between countries
and have Homo Sapiens wipe themselves out.
Humans have wisdom.
It won't be so easy.
It will be if I use
the existence of Ultraman.
Why wipe out humans?
I want to know why.
Once a marker is discovered on a planet,
intelligent life forms must be destroyed.
That is what I do.
Homo Sapiens have destroyed
species that they considered harmful.
From my perspective, it is no different.
And while Homo Sapiens possess
sophisticated intellect and technology,
they are a dangerous and unorganized
species that breeds unnecessarily.
They are worth wiping out.
We agree to disagree then.
Sorry, but I can't let you do that.
Do not bother.
You are already mine, Ultraman.
Killing you is quite difficult.
So, you must be detained
until I finish my work.
Time to sleep, Ultraman.
KAMINAGA
Alone again?
Yup. Not even a daily check-in.
So I got an old friend in the PSIA
to track him for me.
Any luck?
Nope.
Avoiding tails was part of his job,
but he even managed to evade
my elite former colleagues.
He's actually really good.
I wonder what he's up to today?
This is Tamura.
What? Ultraman's appeared
at Yokosuka Base?
He's destroying the base?!
It really is Ultraman.
Where's our deployment order?
It hasn't been given. Or rather,
it seems someone above is halting it.
Captain, a counter-extraterrestrial team
has been formed and has assumed command.
That was too quick for
the Prime Minister's Office.
Someone's pulling strings.
Open fire!
Stop him here!
We're engaging Ultraman.
Anti-ship missiles have no effect.
Darn!
What's the point of being combat ready?
Can't we do anything?
Ultraman has vanished!
Vanished?!
Prime Minister.
It seems what I warned of
has come to pass.
TOKYO BAY LIVE CAMERA
YOKOSUKA 1
That's strange.
It's almost like he wants us
to see him causing damage.
It doesn't matter,
Ultraman is now our enemy.
What? You found Kaminaga's car?
That's strange.
He's not one to leave a trace.
Whoa!
Look at this!
Is this a fake?
There's no evidence of tampering.
It's probably the original.
I don't understand at all.
Everything we've learned is for nothing!
Find out who that man is!
Analyzing the upload access log.
Identifying the target.
Sharing data now.
That outfit looks kind of familiar.
I've got the access log... Huh?
My computer?
Oh, there's other angles, too!
Shinji Kaminaga?!
Wait...
He's Ultraman?!
It's hard to believe.
Facial recognition complete.
There's no mistake.
It's SSSP Member,
Senior Superintendent Shinji Kaminaga.
I see.
My instincts are confused.
But reason compels me
to accept that it's true.
He was an extraterrestrial all this time?
I can't believe you never shared this!
Some buddy you are!
Asami, are you still unable to
reach Kaminaga?
It's not that I can't get through.
His whole phone number has been canceled.
If he really is Ultraman,
then someone may have kidnapped him.
Agreed. His car was abandoned
for three days.
You don't think
a foreign intelligence agency...
Not likely. He's not dumb enough
to get captured by another agent.
Then who?
None of the city's security cameras
have any trace of him.
We can only assume every security video
has been altered with pinpoint accuracy.
The only one who can do this is...
ULTRAMAN ELIMINATION PLAN
PROPOSAL
A being with this degree of destructive
power is trying to annihilate you.
As someone who simply wants peace,
I cannot tolerate this extraterrestrial.
I would like you to implement
this Ultraman Elimination Plan.
I am willing to disclose
all information I have on him.
Thank you.
We deeply appreciate your kind offer.
We gladly accept.
If you don't mind,
we have some questions for you.
How does his light wave heat beam work?
Spacium-133.
Spacium-133?
His body's made of a superheavy element,
atomic no.133, the source of his energy.
He emits a form of that.
How does he fly?
By utilizing the energy of Spacium-133.
He warps gravity and manipulates it.
How did he come here?
No comment.
Our interstellar agreements forbid us from
revealing it to non-signatory life forms.
What's the mechanism by which a human
enlarges and transforms into Ultraman?
I do not know. You will have to ask him.
But...
is Ultraman really our enemy?
Isn't eliminating him
being a little rash?
I feel the giant in Yokosuka wasn't him.
DPA Minister...
If Ultraman reappears, you will realize
that he must be eliminated.
So you are awake, Ultraman.
Sorry to immobilize you in that way.
You require the Beta System to summon
your Ultraman body from another dimension.
I will now scan you again
for the ignition device.
Nothing.
You do not have the ignition device.
Where did you hide it?
Very well.
You can no longer transform into Ultraman.
That is enough.
KAMINAGA
Only he could pull off a trick like this.
BETA CAPSULE
I LEAVE IT WITH YOU
Why did he give this to me?
Is this the device he uses to transform?
He appeared again?
Zarab was right.
Ultraman really is our enemy.
Yes. He was deceiving us all along.
Absolutely.
The SSSP report is not credible at all.
And I thought I was at least
a good judge of character.
Order the SSSP to move out.
Even if Ultraman's true identity
is Kaminaga...
We must fight against anything
that threatens peace and order.
Move out.
Yes sir!
Who are you?
A former associate of
the man who is Ultraman.
You know where he is?
Yes. He asked me to contact you
if anything happened.
Captain.
It's all right.
Permission granted. Let's go.
Captain, where is Asami going?
She has a separate mission.
Asami is acting on her own.
Like a true partner of his.
After I parted with Kaminaga,
Zarab appeared.
He gave me a signal
telling me to track him.
Zarab abducted him, turned invisible,
and vanished.
But Kaminaga left a trail
with special ink.
This is where he's being held.
My team makes sure to use
only analog sources to prevent tampering.
So I've given you a hard copy.
Even when encrypted, phones and emails
are always monitored.
I see. It also looks like Zarab
can't manipulate film negatives.
The ink hasn't faded yet.
It should lead straight to him.
Thank you. I'll take it from here.
Zarab can turn invisible. Utilizing that
ability he can create optical illusions.
Even a fake Ultraman.
It would be easy for Zarab.
This way.
Electronics don't work here.
It must be Zarab, I'm sure of it.
I'm the SSSP captain, Tamura.
I'm the platoon commander.
We can't contact our bases
in Ichigaya or Kisarazu.
We're on our own.
I've been told to follow your orders
in such conditions.
What should we do?
This is a populated area.
We should avoid attacking him.
If I may, sir...
I hear he's on your team.
Are you letting him go?
No.
Anti-ship missiles
are ineffective against him.
All we can do is wait.
Wait?
For what?
I didn't expect this from you, Asami.
I underestimated you.
The whole world knows who you are now.
I see.
So...
You admit it.
You made fools of us! You lied to us!
I never lied.
I just never told you.
Why didn't you tell us?!
What would you have done?
All right.
I won't judge you.
A man claiming to be
your former associate helped me.
Were you always expecting me
to rescue you?
Of course. You're my buddy.
Just tell me one thing.
Are you an extraterrestrial?
Or a human?
I'm both.
Some things are only clear
when you are in between.
I believe this is why I exist.
I believe in you too.
You trusted me with this.
So I trust you.
Your imposter is here
and destroying the city.
Take him out!
What's that?
Is that a person?
I see her! That's our analyst, Asami!
We're counting on you, Kaminaga.
There's another Ultraman?!
This one is the real one.
Wow! That's Spacium-133!
I knew it was Zarab.
We were right.
Thank you...
Kaminaga.
Yes!
Former Senior Superintendent Kaminaga!
Find him and secure him!
Priority One.
Intelligence agencies across the world are
also looking. We have to find him first.
All this and we still can't find him.
Where has Shinji Kaminaga gone?!
Kaminaga is right to stay hidden.
If a person could become Ultraman, anyone
would want to take advantage of him.
What about his human rights?
He's an extraterrestrial now.
The government has already
pronounced him dead.
Quick work for a government office.
They just want to use him
as Ultraman no matter what.
Japan's not the only country that does.
Yeah, and with the Zarab incident,
the Prime Minister's going around
apologizing to the UN and G9.
The Prime Minister's under pressure.
But so are we.
I saw old colleagues and CIA
and SIS agents outside this morning.
I made sure to say "Hi."
Spying on us won't help.
What a waste of time.
Is Asami not in today?
Yes. She's AWOL again.
I get it's hard to come in after that,
but disappearing gives the media
the chance to say they've eloped.
Her PSIA background
makes them easy gossip targets.
Anyone would want to disappear for a bit.
But I'm worried.
It's unlike her not to give any notice.
What?
Asami's been found?
This way.
Excuse me! Clear the way! Coming through!
Excuse me! Excuse me! Clear the way!
Coming through! Excuse me!
Let us through!
Excuse me!
Excuse me! Excuse me!
Whoa.
It really is Asami.
Anti-tank choppers are on their way.
Tell the brass to hold their attack.
Let's get closer.
Asami!
Are you Hiroko Asami?!
What's wrong?! Can you hear me?!
Answer me!
Look at those blank eyes.
She seems hypnotized.
We're under attack from the giant female!
Evacuate the area!
Casualties expected!
The Prime Minister has authorized
lethal force. Permission to fire?
Hold your fire.
She may be giant,
but she could still be human.
That's right.
You'd be wise not to attack her.
This is a demonstration.
Just a presentation
to you native species of this planet.
Who are you?! Show yourself!
There's no need for that.
I just want you to know that Ultraman
isn't the only one with this technology.
Good day.
Asami!
Is she dead?!
No, she's alive! I can detect breathing!
Thank goodness.
That voice hinted at
offering advanced technology.
They'll contact us. Let's wait for them.
I'll join you there.
Understood, sir.
The ability to make humans gigantic could
lead to the militarization of Ultraman.
It won't just be Japan.
The whole world will want this.
This'll be another hassle.
And Kaminaga's nowhere to be found.
It's like Sleeping Beauty
mixed with Gulliver's Travels.
Chief, those references are too old.
Analysis complete.
We did composite electromagnetic
scans of her body.
There are heat energy variances, but
all other data is flat, even her clothes.
It's like her entire body's composed
of an unknown homogenous material
different from human somatic cells.
Like Ultraman?
What about bio samples?
It's just that.
Normal cutting devices, even lasers,
can't cut a single hair.
We couldn't even cut off a single micron
of body tissue. Her clothes too.
We couldn't get any samples.
She's practically indestructible.
Even empty-handed,
she could function as a weapon.
We don't know anything about
her current state.
All we know is that she's breathing
and she's still alive.
Yeah. Just what is life?
This flips biological science on its head.
All the knowledge humanity
has accumulated up to now
amounts to nothing more than
common sense for extraterrestrials.
Don't be so discouraged.
That's what that voice wants.
It left Asami behind
so we'd study her and realize
that we can't grasp
their secret of human enlargement,
making its presentation
that much more valuable.
Well done. You're correct.
Sorry. The door was unlocked.
No, I locked it.
MEFILAS, EXTRATERRESTRIAL #0
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY
That's very kind of you.
"When in Rome do as the Romans do."
One of my favorite sayings.
As those who've had
direct contact with Ultraman,
I wanted to begin
negotiations through you.
My name is Mefilas.
I am Extraterrestrial No. 0.
I have come to bring this planet gospel.
Number zero?
Yes.
I actually arrived here before Ultraman.
I have been preparing my presentation
for some time now.
So you're the voice from earlier?
Yes.
But he looks human.
We could not distinguish Ultraman
from ourselves either.
First we'd like proof
you're an extraterrestrial.
Then we'll talk.
This alone should be enough proof.
But everything starts with trust.
Whoa...
I don't believe it.
This is a Beta Box.
While not miniaturized like
Ultraman's Beta Capsule,
it has the same fundamental structure.
I'm not even drunk.
Why am I sleeping in plastic sheets?
So now a third one.
First Kaiju, and now even
extraterrestrials are normal in Japan.
All rise!
Sorry for the wait.
Not at all.
Let's get down to business.
"Strike while the iron is hot."
One of my favorite sayings.
We seek the same thing, to create
a world brimming with peace and joy
that permeates the multiverse.
SELF-DEFENSE AGAINST EXTRATERRESTRIALS
THROUGH MAKING HUMANS GIANT
I abhor violence.
But when it comes to
violent beings like Zarab,
sometimes power is necessary
for defense.
As a deterrent, I will provide you with
a large quantity of Beta Boxes.
In return...
I ask that you consider me
the Superior Conception.
Your laws can remain the same.
It won't have an effect on your lives.
That's all that I ask.
I understand.
We will consider your proposal favorably.
There's no telling when
the next extraterrestrial will attack.
"Better safe than sorry."
One of my favorite sayings.
Did you hear? The Secretary-General's
lobbying for human-to-giant experiments.
I heard. Weaponizing the Beta System
is more efficient than dealing with nukes.
Soon the whole world will follow.
Can't anyone consider a peaceful use?
Oh.
Welcome back.
How'd you like being prodded and probed
by every government agency?
They put me through the most
humiliating of tests, yet found nothing.
All I got for it was days of indignity.
Then there's this.
The whole world now knows my face,
I can never return to the PSIA!
You're a big star, Asami.
You've taken over the top ten rankings
on social media across the world!
Oh, no!
Can't I just use public authority
to erase all of this!
Mefilas...
I'll never forgive you for this!
Message? From who?
My deepest apologies. I did not imagine
such crass individuals existed.
I was foolish not to take
humans' base impulses into account.
I know it's too late, but please allow me
to make amends for my mistake.
I do hope you'll forgive me.
Regards, Mefilas.
Yes!
Our time has come.
"We are all in the same boat."
One of my favorite sayings.
Well?
Will you work with me
on behalf of this planet?
That depends on you, Mefilas.
Well, in a way,
you're already working for me.
So, it was you.
You were the one
who woke the bioweapons of this planet.
No, it was the humans' destruction
of the environment that awoke the Kaiju.
The wrath of Mother Nature.
It's like karma, Ultraman.
Unlike the native species of this planet,
we are civilized.
I'm in compliance
with our interstellar agreements.
Any interference with other planets
is limited to the use of living creatures.
The initial creatures were just
for reconnaissance and tactical use.
I then used the next-generation Invisible
Kaiju to attack the electrical industry.
And the subterranean Kaiju was designed
to feed on nuclear waste.
They also served as
sufficient bait to lure you out.
I wanted my plan to be
as cost-effective as possible.
So, I've used what I could obtain
on this planet, including Zarab.
By having them fight you...
I made humans feel physically powerless.
Revealing the Beta System
made them feel intellectually powerless.
I wanted them to learn firsthand
their dependence on the mighty.
You have been instrumental in
instilling in humanity
my idealistic notion of unconditional
obedience to extraterrestrial life.
I am very grateful to you.
You are the first successful
example of human fusion.
It was also demonstrated in my experiment.
Thanks to that, we now know that humanity
is an effective biological resource and
can be converted into
a powerful and formidable weapon.
I want to have absolute dominion over this
abundant and precious biological resource
before it is ravaged
by other intelligent life.
That's my only interest, Ultraman.
Moreover...
I think humanity should possess
the Beta System for self-defense
in the event of invasion
from other extraterrestrials.
I must thank Zarab.
He made it hard for you to get around
in human society.
But, this is unsettling.
Let's get a drink.
Kaminaga!
I thought we were buddies.
I should never have trusted him!
I'd rather not fight you.
That's why I suggest you either
work with me or stand down.
The life and death of humanity
is in my hands.
I can use force at any time.
Obviously you can, too.
But you choose not to.
Why?
As you said, for us to rule humans
would be to take all hope from them.
It would stifle
their independent progress.
I can't allow that.
By the Code of the Planet of Light, yes?
Then stay out of my affairs, Ultraman.
I know this planet's value...
More than anyone in the multiverse.
Surrendering this planet to me
is the best option.
Above all,
I desire this beautiful planet for myself.
I, too, love the human race, Ultraman.
You have already made
a secret agreement with this country.
The natives sought the Beta System
of their own accord.
Your Code keeps you from interfering with
native species. You can't stop this.
My plan is perfect.
How will you respond, Ultraman?
By brute force if necessary.
That's the will of the human inside me.
The Code doesn't apply to him.
I see.
So that's why you fused with a native.
A wise decision.
That's not why.
But I suppose that's the outcome.
The Planet of Light
is aware of your actions.
You're going to end up
dooming this planet.
Even so, I want to protect these helpless,
vulnerable little life forms.
Are you sure...
that's your wish and not that
of the human inside you, Ultraman?
How disappointing...
A failure to reach an agreement.
-Excuse me.
-Yes?
-Check please.
-Right away.
Do you mind if we split it, Ultraman?
KAMINAGA
What are you doing with that guy?!
Where are you?!
I can't tell you.
It's better that you not know.
I'll come to you.
You choose the location, buddy.
All right.
I'll tell the team.
Cell phones aren't secure,
so use S115 for contact.
Understood. Thank you.
I was really hoping to take a bath today.
Take the Beta Box from Mefilas?
You mean steal it. That means going
against the government. It's a crime.
Even so, I need your help.
Mefilas has already cut a deal.
The handover is tomorrow.
We don't have time.
We have to stop this
before the government gets the Beta Box.
Abuse of the Beta System is too
dangerous for humans at the present time.
So basically too much of a good thing.
If humans can be used as bioweapons,
there may come a day when
extraterrestrials go to war over us.
Exactly.
It's my fault for proving it's possible.
And yet I got all of you involved.
I'm sorry.
All right.
I'll handle the higher-ups.
Thank you, Captain.
But how do we get the Beta Box?
It's hidden in the Planck brane dimension.
I need to locate its position.
We can't perceive the Planck brane.
So how...?
If the system retains the first subject's
data, you could trace that.
That's impossible. Quantified physical
data can't be detected from the outside.
One piece of data can't be quantified.
The smell.
The smell?
Residual odor.
There's no time. It'll have to do.
Huh?
Now?
Sorry. I've been too busy
to take a shower recently.
It's fine. I can still
identify your scent.
That's not what I'm talking about!
Thank you.
I have your scent memorized. I'll find it.
Platoon One, guard the west side!
Here you go.
It was so nice of you to
choose a location visible
to other nations' spy satellites.
It must have been difficult.
The deal is done. Go ahead.
I understand.
And now...
You searched directly inside
the Planck brane using a woman's scent?
For the noble Ultraman to engage
in such licentious behavior...
"The ends justify the means."
One of my least favorite sayings.
Nice catch!
Okay! Go!
Mr. Tamura's made a fool of you.
Wouldn't you say so...
Mr. Mefilas?
Instead of destroying the Beta Box, its
fate is now left to the native species...
"If at first you don't succeed,
try try again."
One of my least favorite sayings.
I always provide a full warranty.
Please kindly wait a moment.
How unfortune it is we must fight...
Ultraman.
Mefilas.
Take your Beta System
and leave this planet.
Regretfully, I must refuse.
Spacium Energy sustains you.
But the load of expanding
from the Planck brane
as well as maintaining
your fusion with another species
is causing rapid depletion.
I can sustain myself with negentropy
but you can only fight for a limited time.
Will it be long enough
to defeat me, Ultraman?
This is pointless, Ultraman.
Unfortunately, I'll have to
step aside here.
This planet is no longer worth
killing you over.
I will take the Beta Box
with me as you requested.
Why did Mefilas stop fighting?
It looks like they talked
extraterrestrial to extraterrestrial.
Talking things out peacefully is
always the best solution.
Received and accepted.
There's a complication afoot.
I should leave before
things get unpleasant.
Farewell, Ultraman.
Thank you. You were there for us
all the way back to safety.
He stayed with us
right up to his limit.
His one weakness is
his high energy depletion on Earth.
Just relax, let them do their job.
She gets stressed out so easily.
Detainment without an arrest warrant
is a human rights violation!
If we are suspected of violation
of our duties, why aren't we in jail?
The Chief is working to get us restored.
Plus this is also for our protection.
Some countries are hinting at nuclear
attacks if we don't give them intel.
And a US special forces team
has arrived in Japan.
They surely want to kidnap the SSSP
members who know Ultraman's human form.
That's why we're protecting them.
I figured.
The man who is Ultraman remains in hiding.
The SSSP holds the vital position
as the only liaison to him.
Personally...
I'd like them to return to work
as soon as possible.
It's true they broke the law.
But how about we say they were being
coerced by the man who is Ultraman?
Uh... How about that as an excuse?
That will work.
I'll tell that to
the Prime Minister's Office.
We're free to go.
Let's get back to HQ.
Yes sir!
Come to think of it, why does
Ultraman take the form of Kaminaga?
You took this man's life, Lipiah.
No, I'll call you by the name you've
been given on this planet, Ultraman.
That's right.
He lost his life trying to protect
a young human from my impact blast.
An intriguing life form, one willing to
sacrifice his life for the sake of others.
I want to understand him.
So you decided to do the forbidden,
and merge with a human.
That's right.
You came as the new emissary
from the Planet of Light?
My name is Zffy.
Because you broke the Code
of the Planet of Light,
I'm now the watcher of the indigenous
creatures called humans on this planet.
At the same time, I am their adjudicator.
The humans of this planet will likely
evolve in the same way as we have.
Therefore, we have decided
to disposed of them.
Zffy, I believe
the planet's decision is a mistake.
A mistake...
The mistake was your fusion with a human.
Each of the billions of humans
can be used as a bioweapon.
Now, every intelligent life form
in the multiverse knows that.
The best decision is to prune them
all now while we have the chance.
As the adjudicator, I have brought
the Ultimate Celestial Suppression Weapon.
You mean Zetton?
Yes.
I'm activating its autonomous program,
that will exterminate the human race
along with the entire star system.
The Planet of Light has documented
nearly 13 billion intelligent life forms.
The loss of one will have
no impact on the universe.
For the inhabitants of this planet...
One is all there is.
Is the intelligent life
on this planet worth dying over...
Ultraman?
Shouldn't we answer?
They're just going to ask us to deal
with that thing orbiting the Earth.
Don't answer unless it's the Chief.
They just want to make us
get Kaminaga to do something.
They are depending on Ultraman
for everything now.
Humans have always
prayed to god when desperate.
Ultraman is now the closest thing
we have to a god.
No wonder people cling to him.
Kaminaga?!
There's something I must tell you all.
About the thing in the sky?
That's right. It's called Zetton.
I want the details, but you're going to
be in serious trouble if you stay here.
Shinji Kaminaga...
or should I call you Ultraman?
We'd like you to come with us.
I'm sorry, but right now
I need to talk with my team.
We can't allow that.
The government has ratified a treaty
placing Ultraman under
the joint control of Japan
and a newly established UN organization.
Try to understand
Japan's difficult position.
I don't get involved with human society.
I'm merely an observer.
I am not a threat to you.
Sadly, an overwhelming majority of the
international community doesn't trust you.
If you won't come with us, we can't
guarantee the lives of the SSSP.
Intimidation is a terrible thing
for a human to do.
If you do that...
I won't hesitate to wipe out the humans
before Zetton does.
Isn't that intimidation, too?
It's negotiating on equal ground.
If you wish for humans to live,
please refrain from futile attempts
to meddle with the SSSP.
Understood.
We don't want a zero-sum game.
We'll back off.
So Zetton is still in the process of
assembling its attack system.
Another being from my home planet, Zffy,
has released control of the weapon.
Once the weapon is ready, a one-terakelvin
superheated ball of energy
will be launched without warning
from Zetton toward Earth.
A one-terakelvin fireball?
That's a trillion degrees!
That'll evaporate the entire solar system,
affecting an area light-years wide!
An immensely powerful force.
Humans can't do anything about that.
Can Zffy be reasoned with?
He follows
the Code of the Planet of Light.
Our only choice is to defeat Zetton.
How many thermonuclear weapons
does the world's stockpile contain?
The equivalent of roughly
two-million kilotons of TNT.
Totally insufficient.
That won't stop Zetton.
Obviously!
We humans are tiny beings
on this tiny Earth.
To the outside world, we're insignificant.
Letting Ultraman handle it
is the optimal solution.
Kaminaga, it's in your hands now.
Can you defeat Zetton by yourself?
If you do, you may succeed.
If you don't, you will not.
This is always true.
Now I must do.
All right.
Let's do it!
Show some spirit!
Resistance is futile.
Stand aside and await
humanity's purge, Ultraman.
No.
I believe in humans
and I will resist to the end.
That is my choice.
You couldn't defeat Zetton.
You knew you couldn't.
Kaminaga...
Ultraman...
has lost.
I see.
The Prime Minister has decided not to
disclose the truth about Zetton to anyone.
Just do nothing and let humanity
die oblivious as an act of mercy.
So be it.
Captain, what are our orders for Zetton?
To do nothing.
I see.
You're still working, Funaberi?
A bioweapon is still an organism.
It must have a weakness. I'll find it.
Living creatures live by
survival of the fittest.
Weak creatures can become extinct.
Humanity would be no exception.
If we want to survive,
we have to become strong.
That's why we have
wisdom, resilience, and courage.
The godlike Ultraman couldn't beat it.
There's nothing we can do.
Despair weakens the spirit.
It feels better to have hope.
Hope? That's ridiculous!
It doesn't matter what we do!
We're useless.
Useless.
Totally useless!
Taki...
I don't think Kaminaga
believes that.
First, I apologize for
the situation I caused.
I forced you to undergo rapid advancement
to ensure the survival of the human race.
Here are the basic principles
of the Beta System,
and theorems on higher-dimensional domains
converted into your written language.
Rather than being given
a completed Beta System device,
I would like humans to use their knowledge
to create it for themselves.
How humanity uses it is up to you.
Lastly, Ultraman is not an omnipotent god.
Like you, he is a living organism.
I place my hopes in all of humanity.
Taki, you take if from here.
Right.
If we utilize the
dimensional transfer principle,
maybe we can shift Zetton's heat energy
into the Planck brane.
A global summit of scholars
to derive a Zetton attack strategy?
That's right.
It's not just about physics.
We'll gather the whole of human knowledge
and derive a formula for defeating Zetton.
It's Taki's idea.
Humanity can survive. We believe utilizing
what Kaminaga left us to be the only way.
It's a meeting of
the greatest minds in the world,
but it sure looks funny from here.
Yeah.
But that's what's great about it.
Kaminaga.
Taki and the others are cultivating
the seed of hope you left for us.
We humans can be persistent.
I want you to see it.
So you have to wake up.
Zetton has left orbit.
It's descending.
It appears to have entered
its final firing position.
No! There's no time!
Wait! We have to talk to you.
Using your theorem, we were able to
derive a single method to defeat Zetton.
Igniting the Beta Capsule twice will open
a sixth-dimensional hole
to the Planck brane.
You will have 1 millisecond to focus
the resulting gravity wave
on the Zetton fireball's heat energy
and push Zetton
through the extradimensional opening
into the Planck brane.
I see.
After transforming, I have
to hit Zetton in one millisecond.
Basically, yes.
What will happen to Ultraman?
We predict he'll be caught in the event
and sent to some parallel dimension.
What?!
Then this plan is out.
We can't sacrifice you,
even to save humanity.
It's fine.
Your future is my top priority.
My life is but a tool to use to that end.
I trust you.
Promise you'll come back.
See you soon!
Right.
Be right back.
Ultraman. Wake up.
Without the signal of your desire
to survive, I could not have found you.
The acceptance of death
is the same as the desire for life.
Thank you, Zffy.
So, to both accept death and thirst
for life is the core of human nature.
Indeed, humans are fascinating.
I respect humanity's bravery, intellect,
and vitality that let you defeat Zetton.
They are too precious to destroy.
You are injured.
I will bring you home
and we can leave humans be.
Come. Let's return
to the Planet of Light, Ultraman.
Zffy, I share this body with a human.
To allow him to live,
I will remain on Earth.
Ultraman.
You now understand him so well that you're
willing to sacrifice yourself for him.
He must understand you as well.
He will forgive you.
By fusing with
an organism of this planet...
I sought to understand him and his people.
But I believe humans are too complex
to simply understand.
That's why I wish to become human
and learn more about them.
And humanity is running out of time.
Fearing their ability to defeat Zetton,
other intelligent life forms
will continue to appear on Earth.
But humanity is very young.
In order to give them
even the slightest fighting chance...
I will remain on Earth.
Ultraman... that's not possible.
I must return you to the Planet of Light.
You must face the consequences
of breaking our Code.
Zffy.
In that case, give my life to him.
I want to leave this body
to the humans of tomorrow.
Even if it means your death?
Yes.
To be human is to accept death.
Human lives are far shorter than ours.
I want him to live.
His partner and friends feel likewise.
I wish to grant them this.
Ultraman...
Have you become so fond of humans.
Very well. I will grant you your wish.
Thank you, Zffy.
I am going to separate
your body from Kaminaga's.
Kaminaga!
Kaminaga...
Welcome home.
Because the distant star shined so bright
I trembled as I ran after its light
In a cracked mirror,
I stared at a reflection of my past self
I wanted to be strong,
in awe of everything
You looked up at a hat
Fluttering in the wind
As you went on a long and short journey
Traces of bygone days
If you so wish,
He'll come to your aide
with everything he has
For now, fear nothing
And be the only one
to understand the meaning of pain
A flower about to wilt
said its last words to me
"Though you may no longer see me,
I'll watch over you from afar"
Yes
You're absolutely shattered,
Your heart's been worn down
The story begins with
A bit of loneliness
If the touch of your hand is
The power of loneliness
that brings us together
Who has the right to take that away?
We'll keep seeking each other
until our lives are lost
From beyond the leaves of the trees,
A shining star says
With a level gaze,
You think of the future
Unaware,
We'll keep travelling towards the beyond
If you so wish,
He'll come to your aide
with everything he has
For now, fear nothing
And be the only one
to understand the meaning of pain
Show me that slight smile
that resembles that star
Just be the one
to understand the meaning of pain
EXECUTIVE SUPERVISOR
HIDEAKI ANNO